All right.
So this video will focus primarily on creating lists.
There's a couple of different options and how to make a new list.
So we've established that lists are just a collection of other bits of data.
And we talked a bit about why they're useful.
But here's a quick example again in the slides.
So imagine that we have three strings of to do three things we need to do install Python.
Learn Python and take a break.
This is similar to the shopping cart example in that we could approximate a list using variables but
there's no ordering here.
It's problematic and they're not associated in any way.
They're totally separate variables even though we want them to be associated.
We want an order they're all part of our dues.
So a list looks like this.
The key syntax that will see all the time with lists are the square brackets usually on the right side
of the keyboard above the return key.
Roughly don't hold me to it.
So these Those are the key bits of information that tell Python This is a list.
So tasks equals just a regular variable declaration.
But on the right side these two brackets.
And then inside we separate the values by commas and it happens that these three values are strings.
They do not have to be the same.
We could have a string a number of boolean another string and so on.
OK.
So when we hit enter here the tasks variable will store these three bit of information in the order
that we add them in.
So we have install Python followed by learn Python followed by take a break.
Also if we had them stored in variables as first task second and third task we could also just create
a new list using those variables.
So we don't have to put strings in directly.
We could use a variable that references a string and add that in.
So let's quickly make a new list here and I'm just going to call this demo list and I'll just show you
we can put whatever we want to the string a one 45 true afloat.
Six point seven seven seven point seven.
There we go.
And they'll hit enter.
And if we look at Demo lists now you can see those square brackets made it a list and inside of it we
have these comma separated values of all different data types.
Often you want the same data type in there because of the data you're working with.
If it's in a list it's usually pretty homogenous.
It's a list of names a list of items list of numbers but you don't have to abide by that.
So the next thing that I'll show you we've seen how to create a list or one way to create it.
What if we wanted to know how many items are in there how many elements are in the list.
So the first built in function will see for lists is called LCN stands for length.
And we just pass in a list and it will return to us the number of items in the list.
So if I did learn on demo list what do we expect to see 5 1 2 3 4 5.
So that one's pretty straightforward but it's actually quite useful when you have a list and you don't
know how many items are in it.
Let's say you were trying to loop through it which we haven't talked about.
Well how many times does a loop need to repeat.
You need to know how many items are in the list and might have one or might have 100 like in the case
of our shopping list.
So another way to make a list is to use the list builtin function which we actually have seen already.
When I talked about ranges.
So remember that if we just ran something like this to make a variable called R R is range from 1 to
10.
And remember when we looked at our all we got back was the range itself.
So yes this does represent the numbers 1 through 10 in a sequence.
It's not a list.
And to make it visible to us I showed you that you could turn it into a list.
I didn't explicitly say we were turning it into a list but that's what's happening.
This is the same as doing as TR on the integer 3 where it gives us the string of three when we do lists
on a range.
It gives us the list version of a range.
So this is another way if you need a list of numbers so you're not just using a range to loop through
things but you actually need the numbers in the list.
You can convert a range to a list.
And as you can see here converting this range to this gives us 1 2 3.
So this is something we'll see later on so I'll stop the video.
Here we have our data analyst but it's trapped.
So in the next video we'll see a couple of ways of getting it out of accessing our data.